# S3

## Basics
- S3 is Object based i.e. allows you to upload files
- Files can be from 0 to 5 TB
- There is unlimited storage
- Files are stored in Buckets
- S3 is a universal namespace which means names must be unique globally
- When you upload a file to S3 bucket you will receive a HTTP 200 code if the upload was successful.

## Data Consistency Model for S3
- Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects and DELETES, which means when you upload a file to S3, you can read this file from S3 immediately. However,
- Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES can take some time to propagate
## S3 is a simple key, value stored
S3 is object based, which consist of the following:
- key: the name of the object
- value: the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes
- Version ID: important for versioning
- Metadata: Data about the data storing

## S3 Storage Classes/Tiers
- S3: durable, immediately available, frequently accessed
- S3 - IA: durable, immediately available, infrequently accessed
- S3 - Reduced Redundancy Storage(data that is easily reproducible, such as thumb nails etc)
- Glacier - Archived data, where you can wait 3-5 hrs before accessing.

## S3 Charges
- storage
- Requests
- Storage Management Pricing
- Data Transfer Pricing, move data around S3 Buckets
- Transfer Acceleration.

## S3 - Exam Tips for S3 101
- Object based storage only.
- NOT  suitable to install an operating system on.

## Create an S3 Bucket - Exam Tips
- Buckets are a universal name space.
- Upload an object to S3 receive a HTTP 200.
- S3, S3-IA, S3 reduced Redundancy Storage.
- Encryption
  - Client Side Encryption
  - Server Side Encryption
    - Server side encryption with Amazon S3 Managed Keys(SSE-S3)
    - Server side encryption with KMS(SSE-KMS)
    - Server side encryption with Customer Provided Keys(SSE-C)
- Control access to buckets using either a bucket Access Control List(ACL) or using Bucket Policy
- BY DEFAULT Buckets are PRIVATE and ALL Objects stored inside them are PRIVATE.

## S3 Version Control - Exam Tips
- Stores all versions of an object(including all writes and even if you delete an object)
- Great backup tool
- Once enabled, Versioning cannot be disabled, only suspended
- Integrates with Lifecycle rules
- Versioning's MFA Delete capability, which uses multi-factor authentication, can be used to provide an additional layer of security.

## S3 - Cross Region Replication - Exam Tips
- Versioning must be enabled on both the source and destination Buckets
- Regions must be unique
- Files in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically. All subsequent replicate to multiple buckets or use daisy chaining.
- Delete markers are replicated.
- Deleting individual versions or delete markers will not be replicated.
- Understand what Cross Region Replication is at a high level
## Lifecycle Management Lab
- Can be used in conjunction with versioning
- Can be applied to current versions and previous versions.
- Following actions can now be done:
  - Transition to the Standard - Infrequent Access Storage Class(128Kb and 30 days after the creation date)
  - Archive to the Glacier Storage Class(30 days after IA, if relevant)
  - Permanently deleted.
